>> This is "Nuevo", the
mysterious structures on Mars.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Gaia presents "Nuevo"
with Jaime Maussan.
>> Since the first images were
taken and observed of Mars
by the NASA space missions,
the former Soviet Union,
the European Space Agency,
the Indian Space Agency,
and now even Google Mars, we
have observed some strange
structures on the
Red Planet, Mars.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The Face of Mars, popularly
known as the Face of Cydonia,
is a distinctive feature on
the surface of the Red Planet,
located in the Cydonia region.
More specifically,
it is a figure
that resembles a human face.
It measures approximately
3 kilometers long
by 1.5 kilometers wide.
And is located 41 degrees
five minutes north
and 9 degrees, 50 minutes west.
It was photographed for the
first time on July 25, 1976,
by the space probe Viking 1,
which was orbiting the planet.
News of this photo caught
the attention of the public.
And six days later, a press
report was delivered by NASA.
For more than a decade, many
consider this information
to be that of a human face.
And many people believe
it's a clear depiction
of an intelligent
alien presence on Mars.
It could have been
left as a message
by an ancient civilization
that at one time,
inhabited the Red Planet.
Two photographs taken
by Viking 1 and Viking 2
at different times
clearly show a face
with human characteristics.
From the onset, NASA
assured the public
it was just an optical illusion.
In 1998 and then in
2001, new photographs
were released that were taken
by the Mars Global Surveyor.
And in 2002, another
photo was released
that was shot by the
Mars Odyssey Orbiter.
The light was different.
And the perspective
of the photographs
left diverse opinions
and impressions.
NASA scientists
ensured the public
that the structure was a
natural rock formation.
And that there was no reason
to believe that it could have
been built by any alien beings.
In addition to the
face seen from space,
there were some
pyramidal shapes that
were found on Mars
that confirmed,
for some, that an intelligent
civilization had existed there.
At this point in history,
these pyramid-shaped objects
remain unexplained.
However, evidence of suspected
intelligent presence on Mars
has continued.
And many believe that the
pyramids were built by someone
from another planet.
On May 19, 2000, the Mars
Global Surveyor probe
took a series of photographs
in the Acidalia region
of the Red Planet.
In these images,
tunnels can be seen
that appear to be
semi-transparent, and run
for many miles.
These extraordinary
images suggest
that the tunnels might have
been used for a communication
system.
Or the complex array of tunnels
were for inner planet travel.
We can see from different
angles in this enhanced digital
illustration that
these tunnels are
quite large in size and height.
An extraordinary
feature of the planet
Mars that we call
the Red Planet.
>> Using Google
Mars in June 2011,
researcher David Martines found
a structure that he called
the Bio Alpha Station, measuring
230 meters long and 45 meters
wide.
It is located near
the north pole.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In June 2011, David Martines
was viewing the Mars Globe
program on the internet,
which is a detailed map
of the surface of Mars, when
he stumbled across a surprising
structure.
The structure contrasts
with the Martian soil.
It wasn't ice.
It wasn't a Martian rock.
And in this region of Mars,
there aren't any mountains.
It looks like a building with
several cylindrical objects
that are connected.
According to the
scale of the map,
it measured about 700 feet
long and 150 feet wide,
or about 213 meters
long and 45 meters wide.
It is white or bright silver.
And very different from
the surrounding soil.
Because of its
symmetry, it definitely
looks like some kind
of base or housing.
>> This is a video of something
that I discovered on Google
Mars, quite by accident.
I call it Bio Station Alpha.
It's very unusual in
that it's quite large.
It's over 700 feet
long, 150 feet wide.
It looks like it's a
cylinder or made up
of cylinders-- cylinder shapes.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The video went viral.
And news of this
discovery was reported
on the internet and television
in the United States.
But NASA has not yet
explained what it is.
Spokesman Don Brown
said there is not
enough evidence to consider
it an artificial structure.
It's possible that they don't
know the origin of this object
or building.
We were able to confirm
from the Mars Globe
that the structure
really does exist.
We searched the maps and
regions near the Martian pole
for other forms like this
or even similar to it,
and found nothing.
This discovery is an additional
unexplained phenomenon
on the Red Planet.
David simply states--
>> Clearly, it's not a rock.
It's not a mountain.
So there it is.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Indeed, there is what appears
to be an artificial structure.
Evidence that allows
us to consider
the possibility that life
exists or once existed on Mars.
There could be a civilization
that survived a great storm.
And what was left is the
building we just observed.
The Mars Science
Lab Curiosity Rover
sent very clear images back
to Earth from the moment
it started to survey
the surface of Mars.
That was on August 9, 2012.
As it captured its first
images, in the distance,
you can make out what appears
to be an extremely large dome.
When making the approach,
it is very clear
that it's an object
that does not
seem to be part of
the Martian landscape,
rather something
that was built there.
One cannot help but wonder,
why the Curiosity Rover did not
head to that place
immediately after seeing it.
Or why it has not
returned to explore it.
The Curiosity Rover captured
another enigmatic image
when leaving the Gale Crater.
Here, we see what seems to be
a semi-buried pyramid, of which
we can only see its tip.
However, it could be
a marker of some kind.
Here on Earth, in
almost every culture,
we have found pyramidal
forms such as this.
Often, they were used
to mark specific points
on the landscape.
What is very clear
is that this is
a structure that was
artificially constructed, not
naturally formed.
The Opportunity Rover landed
on Mars in January of 2004,
and captured the image of what
appears to be two structures--
a larger dome and a smaller dome
sitting isolated in the dirt.
Later, these unique
structures were observed again
in 2015, next to the
Spirit of St. Louis crater.
Unfortunately, the
Rover's route was not
altered to inspect these
foreign structures more closely.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> NASA engineers would like to
understand how the Opportunity
Rover has been able to survive
almost 14 years in such adverse
conditions and extreme weather.
And then there is
a cleaning event.
What or who is
cleaning the rovers?
There are two pieces of
evidence that could provide us
with the answer.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In the Hadley crater, there
are the remains of what appears
to be an ancient city.
These images were captured
by the Mars Express probe
in August of 2004, and
speak for themselves.
It is clear that these are the
remains of destroyed buildings
of what might have been a
large complex, with terraces
and lines of vertical
and horizontal structure.
It is for you to decide
its authenticity.
Are these abandoned remains of
an ancient city eroded by time?
Are they ghost remnants
that speak of other eras
on our neighboring planet, Mars?
Thanks to the work of
passionate scientists,
we have added additional
contrast to these images
to allow us to observe
the details more clearly.
Could these be the remains of
an unknown galactic city that
succumbed to a nuclear war?
Even though these images were
taken more than 13 years ago,
the European Space Agency
has not commented on them.
These images are
very compelling,
real evidence of
structures of what
could have been an
active city on Mars.
Another of the great
mysteries of Mars
were unveiled by the
Opportunity and Spirit rovers.
Both rovers were
programmed for a mission
to explore, take soil
and rock samples, videos,
and photographs.
The mission on the Red Planet
was expected to last three
to six months.
Often, the solar panels would
get covered with Martian dust.
Not a surprise, considering
the landscape and weather.
So with the panels enveloped
in a layer of dust,
the electrical systems
would stop working,
and shut down the rover.
But mysteriously, the two
rover panels would somehow
get cleaned, and
their solar systems
would begin working again.
Even after 14 years,
the NASA engineers
were astonished that both
rovers continued to function.
Someone is cleaning
the solar panels.
The Opportunity rover
continues to work today,
years after arriving on Mars.
These events have been
called cleaning events,
and can even be
found on Wikipedia.
So far, the Opportunity rover
has been cleaned five times.
While the Spirit rover, after
being cleaned repeatedly,
got stuck in 2020, and
became immobilized.
Curiously, since then, its
panels have not been cleaned.
And it remains incommunicado
with the Earth.
Recently, the Opportunity rover
was cleaned for the last time,
and at that moment,
its solar panels
were as clean as when it began
its mission on Mars years ago.
We can clearly see that the
panels are covered with dust.
And then suddenly, from
one day to the next,
they appear totally clean.
Here are some
photographic examples
that show the before and after
cleaning events on the rovers
that we have talked about.
An article published by
NASA in February 2014
made these comments,
"12 years ago is
a long time for rovers that
were designed for a three month
mission.
It's beyond imagination,
almost unbelievable."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Mars is and will remain a
mystery until a human being can
land on the Red Planet
and explore its surface.
However, it will
probably be years
before documented proof of
what we have unveiled on Nuevo
is confirmed.
Our hope is that
our investigation
will remain as
evidence until what
has been presented in our
video is proven or disproven.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The first piece of
evidence is a photograph taken
by the left navigation
camera on the Curious rover.
In this picture, you
can see the shadow
of what appears to be a human
being leaning over the rover.
This is not a trick
of light and shadows.
You can clearly see the
person's hair, his legs,
and some kind of
pack on his back.
Although many
discredit this image,
there is no convincing
explanation for it.
The photograph has not been
photoshopped or altered
in any way.
The second piece of
evidence is a testimony
that was offered by a person
who identified himself
as part of the team of
scientists who participated
in the Viking mission.
This person claims to have
seen two people approaching
the rover.
This testimony was
recorded by John Lear,
researcher and host of the
radio show Coast to Coast.
>> I used to work at NASA during
that time handling downlink
telemetry.
And one night on
our video monitors
while the Viking rover
was running around,
I see two men in suits, not
necessarily space suits.
They look protective,
but they didn't
look like the bulky things
that our astronauts use.
But they came over
the horizon, walking
towards the Viking Explorer.
And our vision got cut off.
I didn't see what they did
with it or anything else.
>> They were probably
making repairs.
>> Well, that's why
I was wondering.
If they were our
guys or not because--
you know what kind
of suits they wore?
>> Pardon?
>> Do you know what
kind of suits they wore?
>> Well, they wouldn't
have to wear very much.
The atmosphere is--
there's enough atmosphere
to walk around without
a spacesuit on Mars,
same as there is on the moon.
It's like about
15,000 feet on Earth.
Now you can go through a
24-hour acclimatization
program on the moon,
and you can walk around
without a spacesuit.
Same thing on Mars, you
don't need a spacesuit.
If they had one, it
was just minimal.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Could intelligent beings
be helping us carry out
our missions on Mars?
It sounds like a
science fiction movie.
However, the evidence
suggests such a possibility.
One of the most important
pieces of evidence
that reveals the likelihood of
an intelligent presence on Mars
is undoubtedly, the photograph
taken by the Spirit rover
on November 9, 2007
in the Gusev crater.
In the panoramic
image, the presence
of a human figure in the
shot is not quite obvious.
However, if we
zoom in, we can see
what appears to be a
woman sitting on a hill.
This image went unnoticed
by NASA scientists.
However, after
close observation,
independent researchers
discovered her.
Unfortunately, her face is
not visible through her hair.
She appears to be
wearing a dress.
And you can see her hands
and her feet in the image.
By adding a filter and
filling in additional detail,
we can observe with
greater clarity,
the colors of the dress
and her hands and feet.
She has an adult
body, with wide hips.
If confirmed, the
authenticity of this image
would be one of the most
important discoveries
of our time as we explore
planets in our solar system.
It is not a stone.
And the original
photograph was not a setup.
And since this is the
official image from NASA,
it must be real.
With a computer program, we have
created the image of this woman
as a 3D animation, respecting
even the smallest detail.
Watch and examine it carefully.
It has to be a human form.
Clearly, that of a woman.
However, it is difficult to
believe that any person could
survive in such extreme
conditions on such
a hostile planet.
There is practically no
oxygen in the Mars atmosphere.
And no perceivable water.
And with extreme
temperatures ranging
between 20 and 80
degrees below zero
in this region where
the image was taken,
survival would be
difficult. This photograph
was captured by
the Spirit rover,
and is not an optical illusion.
Almost two years earlier,
in January of 2006,
the Spirit rover obtained
another very strange image
in the Gusev crater.
What we see here seems
to be an object made
of stone that would
have been placed
one object next to the other.
This image also has no
conventional explanation,
yet it is clear that this
object was not formed naturally.
Who or what made it?
And why does this room exist?
There are many unanswered
questions on Mars.
And surely, the
most important query
would be, why weren't these two
objects investigated further?
Why didn't the
Spirit rover, which
wasn't far from this place,
return to take new images?
The possibility of
having confirmed
an intelligent presence
on Mars would undoubtedly
justify any effort by the
scientists who were controlling
the Spirit rover.
Could a human being
survive on Mars?
According to the
information available,
it would be difficult since
the availability of oxygen
is practically non-existent.
However, we already know that
there is some water present
there.
And we know that the soil
is fertile for plant growth.
We also know that
temperatures during the day
are similar to those on Earth.
But no one really knows if
we could survive underground.
We'll only be able to
answer those questions when
human beings land on Mars,
and can explore its surface
in person.
In other released images,
we can view objects or ships
flying over the surface of Mars.
Objects that have no
predictable explanation.
These photographs of
a dish-shaped object
were captured in July of 2014.
In another photo, here
cylindrical objects or ships,
such as in the sequence, were
taken by the Curiosity rover
on April 28, 2014.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> On the next
episode of "Nuevo",
we will present irrefutable
proof that an atomic explosion
occurred on the Red Planet,
Mars, on October 19.
2015.
This explosion was
captured by cameras
from space, and from there.
I'm Jaime Maussan,
and I will see you
on the next episode of "Nuevo."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Gaia presented "Nuevo",
with Jaime Maussan.